---
categories: computing
title: Bash
tags:
  - linux
  - cli
  - bash
published: true
date: '2025-02-20'
---
[Linux commands](Linux%20commands.md)

*   \[\[Bash shortcuts\]\]
    
*   [the-linux-bashrc-file-explained](https://www.howtogeek.com/the-linux-bashrc-file-explained/)
    

Bash, short for Bourne Again Shell, is a powerful command-line interface (CLI) and scripting language used extensively in \[\[Linux\]\] and \[\[macOS\]\]. It's a successor to the original Bourne Shell (sh) and offers a versatile way to interact with your operating system, automate tasks, and manage files.

**Key Features:**

*   **Command Interpreter:** Bash allows you to directly execute commands in a terminal window, such as navigating directories, viewing files, and running programs.
    
*   **Scripting Language:** You can write scripts to automate repetitive tasks, perform complex operations, and even create custom programs.
    
*   **Customization:** Bash offers a high degree of customization, allowing you to tailor your environment with aliases, functions, and configuration files.
    
*   **Integration with the Operating System:** Bash provides direct access to the system's kernel and file system, making it a powerful tool for system administration and programming.
    

**Common Uses:**

*   **System Administration:** Automating tasks like backups, log analysis, and system updates.
    
*   **Programming:** Writing scripts for data processing, file manipulation, and web scraping.
    
*   **Shell Programming:** Creating interactive shells and custom command-line tools.
    
*   **General Productivity:** Streamlining tasks like file management, text processing, and network administration.

